Recently, I have been trying to bridge the gap between delicious foods I can eat and delicious foods I can make. I often find myself asking, "I wonder how they made that?". Savannah (my wife) and I tried a new routine in our cooking life that is helping to increase the proportion of foods I am served for which I can honestly say, "I bet I could make that".

The idea behind this new routine is to take a month and dedicate it to cooking one particular category of cuisine. We find this is a fun and efficient way to stretch ourselves and learn some new techniques.

Along with this single-category constraint, we gave ourselves a few allowances. The first allowance is the time bound. A one month time limit balances our preference for culinary variety with our interest in going deep. The second allowance is that we don't try change the frequency of our cooking. We are not in the habit of cooking every evening, and we decided not to try to increase that rate at the same time. Finally, on the nights that we do eat out, we don't eat the same cuisine we're cooking. Together, these constraints helped make this experiment sustainable enough for us to keep doing it.

The first month we did this, our category of choice was Chinese. That is a huge category, but we were just starting out so we wanted to give ourselves a bit of flexibility. Maybe in a future month we'll do something more specific like Sichuan cuisine or chinese soups.

With our category in mind, a bit of research confirmed our suspicion that cooking exclusively Chinese would require us to acquire a whole new pantry of ingredients. One of the best things I discovered in that initial process is that it was possible to choose recipes with a fair amount of overlap. A bunch of recipes called for chin kiang vinegar, shao xing wine, sichuan peppercorn, fermented black beans, woks. Relatively unfamiliar tools of Chinese cooking were appearing together in a bunch different recipes alongside more familiar ingredients - soy sauce, garlic, scallions, chicken. I seasoned our wok, went to the nearest chinese market, picked up the ingredients, and we were off to the races. Once we had made the initial investment into stocking our pantry with Chinese cooking essentials, it got a lot easier.

That pattern is the single best thing about sticking with one cuisine over the course of the month - you get to reuse ingredients that would otherwise probably not be worth purchasing for just one recipe. Instead of trying to find replacements, we would just go out and buy the exact thing the recipe called for, since there was a good chance we would be using it again. Another benefit of that is that I now know my way around a chinese grocery store. If you're looking for fermented black beans, go to the spices aisle, not the pickled vegetables aisle.

Over the course of the month we made king pao chicken, braised eggplant, wontons in numb and spicy Sichuan-style oil, stir fried cucumber with ground pork, fried rice with basil and green beans, stir fried broccoli, and a few other dishes. Most of the recipes we used came from [Serious Eats](https://www.seriouseats.com/tags/wok%20skill), which I like because it not because of the great recipes, but because it gives explanations and teaches principles.

After a month off, our next category was Indian. We bought a spice grinder, a ton of interesting new spices, and learned that coriander is the same as cilantro (I guess I knew that?). We made palak paneer three times (still haven't gotten it quite right - thus the repetition), baingan bharta, a couple of tasty daals, butter chicken, chicken tikka masala, cauliflower curry, egg curry, and chana masala. We might do another Indian month.

When we did an Italian month, almost all the ingredients were familiar, but we started to learn about how the quality of the dish is limited by the quality of the ingredients that comprise it. We made some delicious pastas and learned that the only canned tomatoes you ever need to buy are whole peeled tomatoes and tomato paste.

If you do a cooking month, let me know how it goes!
